Video upload design (#5224)
open-edge-platform/training_extensions: application/docs/dataset.md

- the inference pipeline, whose data collection stage implements policies to select which frames to save,
  along with the predictions generated by the model.
- the user, who manually uploads images or videos through the web interface or the REST API.

The dataset, uniquely associated with a project, serves as input for various analytical workflows such as model
fine-tuning, evaluation, and data exploration. The user has full control over the dataset, being able to add and remove
elements, edit annotations and other attributes.

### Media vs Dataset item

In Geti Tune, a _media_ refers to the actual image or video file that contains visual content. Media files are the raw
data that the system processes, analyzes, and displays. They can be in various formats such as JPEG, PNG, MP4, etc.
Video frame is also considered a media and is stored as an individual image file and can be annotated.

> Video itself cannot be annotated, only its frames can. Media can have a reference to its source, such as a camera for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Images and video frames can be annotated. When a frame is annotated, Geti Tune extracts it 
from the video, assigns it an id, and saves it as an image; the extracted frame can also be
considered a media, supporting all the operations that are normally possible for images.
A media may have a reference to a source, e.g. the camera from which it was acquired.
```
slightly rephrased for clarity

A _dataset item_, on the other hand, is a more comprehensive entity that includes not only the media itself but also
additional metadata and annotations associated with that media. Dataset items are the units of data that are used
within the context of a dataset for machine learning tasks. Each dataset item typically contains:

> - The media file (image or video frame). Video CANNOT have a dataset item associated with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _dataset item_, on the other hand, is the fundamental unit of a machine learning dataset.
Each dataset item corresponds to an annotated image or video frame, enriched with metadata
that is relevant for ML tasks. Each dataset item typically contains:
- A reference to the media file (image or video frame). Video CANNOT have a dataset item associated with it.
```
slightly rephrased for better clarity

- Annotations: Labels, bounding boxes, segmentation masks, or other forms of annotations that describe the content of the media.
- Metadata: Additional information such as timestamps, source information, tags, and other relevant attributes.
- Subset assignment: Information about whether the item belongs to the training, validation, or testing subset of the dataset.
- Other relevant properties that may be needed for dataset management and processing.

Dataset item and media are closely related, but they serve different purposes within the Geti Tune ecosystem.

> Dataset item and media share the same unique identifier (UUID), which allows for easy correlation between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A dataset item shares the same unique identifier (UUID) with the media it refers to, which allows easy correlation.
In other words, the id of a dataset item always corresponds to the id of an image or an extracted video frame.
```

- the inference pipeline, whose data collection stage implements policies to select which frames to save,
  along with the predictions generated by the model.
- the user, who manually uploads images or videos through the web interface or the REST API.

The dataset, uniquely associated with a project, serves as input for various analytical workflows such as model
fine-tuning, evaluation, and data exploration. The user has full control over the dataset, being able to add and remove
elements, edit annotations and other attributes.

### Media vs Dataset item

In Geti Tune, a _media_ refers to the actual image or video file that contains visual content. Media files are the raw
data that the system processes, analyzes, and displays. They can be in various formats such as JPEG, PNG, MP4, etc.
Video frame is also considered a media and is stored as an individual image file and cannot be annotated.

> Video itself cannot be annotated, only its frames can.

Reviewer: L20 says "Video frame ... cannot be annotated"
L21 says "Video ... frames can"

Probably there is a typo somewhere because the two sentences are contradicting.

Author: Indeed, fixed!

A _dataset item_, on the other hand, is a more comprehensive entity that includes not only the media itself but also
additional metadata and annotations associated with that media. Dataset items are the units of data that are used
within the context of a dataset for machine learning tasks. Each dataset item typically contains:
- The media file (image or video frame). Video CANNOT have a dataset item associated with it.
- Annotations: Labels, bounding boxes, segmentation masks, or other forms of annotations that describe the content of the media.
- Metadata: Additional information such as timestamps, source information, tags, and other relevant attributes.

> - Source reference: Information about where the media originated from (optionally).

Reviewer: 'Source' should be an attribute of the media instead of the dataset item

Author: Correct, moved it to the `media`

- the inference pipeline, whose data collection stage implements policies to select which frames to save,
  along with the predictions generated by the model.
- the user, who manually uploads images or videos through the web interface or the REST API.

The dataset, uniquely associated with a project, serves as input for various analytical workflows such as model
fine-tuning, evaluation, and data exploration. The user has full control over the dataset, being able to add and remove
elements, edit annotations and other attributes.

### Media vs Dataset item

In Geti Tune, a _media_ refers to the actual image or video file that contains visual content. Media files are the raw
data that the system processes, analyzes, and displays. They can be in various formats such as JPEG, PNG, MP4, etc.

> Images and video frames can be annotated. When a frame is annotated, Geti Tune extracts it 

Reviewer 2: How will this work for predictions on frames? Will each predicted frame also be extracted?

Author: No, we will extracted frames only for fine-tuning, not for predictions

Reviewer: Prediction on videos is a feature planned for a later date (see req. #4946). The UX isn't ready yet, but I imagine that the user should have an option to save predictions and accept/edit them. If so, we likely need to extract the frames while we run inference on them.

Author: Correct, but not all of them. It will work similar to data collection

The database saves the relevant information in the following tables:

- `media`: contains all media records, for images, videos & video frames. Each record is identified by a unique id
  and contains metadata about the media (filename, format, size, shape, etc.).
- `videos`: contains one record for each video, identified by a media id. Video share the id with corresponding `media` record. 

>   Each record contains metadata about the video (fps, frame count) in addition to base media metadata.

Reviewer: The `videos` table can be probably merged with `media` to avoid frequent JOINs. Image- or video-specific fields can be made nullable, possibly with some column-level constraints. Example:
```sql
CREATE TABLE media (
    id     INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
    type   TEXT NOT NULL CHECK (type IN ('image', 'video')),
    fps    INTEGER,

    CHECK (
        (type = 'image' AND fps IS NULL) OR
        (type = 'video' AND fps IS NOT NULL)
    )
);
```

Author: Agree, here we can optimize schema a bit to reduce number of joins. Merged two tables

- `video_frames`: contains one record for each video frame, identified by a media id. Video frame share the id with corresponding `media` record. 

>   Each record contains metadata about the video frame (timestamp) in addition to base media metadata.

Reviewer: If the base media metadata is already stored in `media`, why replicate it here for each video frame?

Author: Indeed, removed this extra sentence part. We don't have additional metadata in `video_frames`
